- These massive drones
are attempting to plant
20 million trees from the sky,
but to find out how I
ended up here in the middle
of this forest, we need
to go back six months
because that's when
MrBeast hit 20 million subs
and someone suggested to celebrate
he should plant 20 million trees.
It went super viral on Reddit and Twitter
at which point someone else
suggested he should team up
with me and a bunch of other
YouTubers to make it happen,
which got me thinking.
And so with that, I made
my way to Oregon to meet
with MrBeast at his crew
to plant 20 million trees.
(upbeat music)
(all clapping)
One down; 19,999,999 more to go.
(hands clap)
(upbeat music continues)
- It's 20 million trees
in a 48-hour time period.
- The statistics may not be
in our favor, but we got grit.
(upbeat music)
Worm, worm!
Abort, abort!
- [Volunteer] Save it, save it.
- These guys are talking a big game
like they know what they're doing,
but gonna go do a impromptu pull test.
First of all, I don't love the angle.
Can I just say that off the bat?
- No.
- Oh no, oh wow!
(whimsical music)
- [Instructor] Okay, so this is an-
(bell dings)
Oregon White Oak.
(upbeat music)
- We've been planting all day.
A solid eight hours, we're
up to like 250 trees.
So, I mean, it's a start.
It's definitely a start.
Can we just say, look who's the dirtiest.
- [MrBeast] I saw you rubbing stuff on me.
- Wow, yeah.
- Just look who's
the dirtiest.
- Yeah, come on, Mark.
- Mine's super dirty.
- My back kills.
There's a field of trees.
300.
- Yep.
- After a full day of planting.
300 is less than 20 million.
(bell dings)
So after talking it over,
we decided we would play to our strengths.
Jimmy was gonna try and solve our problem
with a tweet recruiting
thousands of people,
and I was gonna pursue
a more robotic solution.
And so with that, I made
my way further up the coast
of Washington using a shortcut I knew
to see if I could uncover a way
to plant trees from the sky.
(lighthearted music)
But before I get into
that, have you ever thought
about where trees actually
get their mass from?
The knee-jerk reaction is to
think it comes from the soil,
but that can't be true because
if you have a tree in a big
pot, as the tree gets bigger
the soil level doesn't go down at all.
The answer, as it turns out,
is that the mass comes from thin air.
The clue is if you look at what the bulk
of the tree is actually made of.
It's almost entirely carbon.
Pretend I'm a tree.
Basically a tree sees a
carbon dioxide molecule
floating by, then it powers up with energy
from the sun using photosynthesis.
Then it uses that energy to rip the carbon
from the oxygen and it takes that carbon
and slaps it on itself to get more swole.
And the tree's like, hey humans,
here's some beautiful fresh
oxygen you can have back.
I don't need it.
So it takes the C and
leaves us with the O2.
That's a sweet deal, and so
trees start really small,
but in order to get bigger and bigger,
they're just sucking more and
more carbon out of the air.
And so now you can see
a tree and appreciate
the beauty in the shade but also that
they're just these really
massive vacuum bags
completely stuffed full of carbon.
And so I was in Washington to meet
with some people who had a crazy idea
that just might be the
key to helping MrBeast
and I plant those 20
million carbon vacuums.
What's up?
Their company's called DroneSeed
and they're only about four years old,
and their idea is to
use these massive drones
to plant trees from the sky.
They do this in two steps.
First, they send out a smaller recon drone
that uses lasers to create
a 3D map of the terrain,
and then from that, they use software
to find all the best
spots to drop the trees
to maximize their survivability.
And then they create a flight path
for each of the drones
to fly autonomously.
Then you load up the drone with a bunch
of these seed pucks that
you'll drop from the sky.
And their design is super clever too,
because in each puck,
represented by a hockey puck
in this case, there's a special cocktail
of around six seeds specifically chosen
for the area where they're planting.
And then you have nutrients,
sort of like a fertilizer,
that will help the seed grow
and keep it from drying out.
And then because you don't
want a bunch of squirrels
or mice just making a buffet
out of all the seeds you drop,
you need some way to condition them
to give the whole experience
just a one star review.
(sniffs)
(groans)
- So ghost peppers,
they're an olfactory
and gustatory deterrent
which means if you eat it, you
know, the obvious reaction,
and on the way out is the same thing.
- Yeah, gustatory is the
euphemism for on the way out.
I ate Taco Bell last night
and had some gustatory issues as well.
And then once you secure the puck dropper
to the drone, it's time to fly.
Light the fires, kick the tires.
(drones buzzing)
(futuristic hiphop music)
(Mark laughs)
Dude, that's like a
mini house just flying.
That is wild.
(futuristic hiphop music continues)
Oh, there we go! (laughs)
I don't know why it's so funny to me.
It really just looks like mechanized poop.
And in some ways this sort
of like mimics mother nature, right?
Because like a bird eats a
seed, it flies, it poops it,
and there's like, nourishment
around that seed, right?
- Yes, that's exactly
what it is, is biomimicry.
- And this is brutal terrain.
You wouldn't be wanting
to walk down in here.
So to be able to access this
from the sky is a really big deal.
After wildfires, we used
to rely on Mother Nature
to do reforestation forest us,
but due to some factors
related to climate change,
40% of the time now we're
seeing tall shrubs grow back
instead of big old
trees that can literally
suck up tons of carbon.
And that's an example
where drones are perfect
because they can get in right
away and start planting trees
in the smoldering remains
where it's too dangerous
for humans to be on the ground.
Even with only three
drones you can reforest
an area six times faster
than a normal planting crew.
If you can nail a fleet
like this with just three,
you could just scale this up.
You can imagine the potential where,
you know, you have a swarm of 100 drones.
The work DroneSeed is doing is awesome.
It gives me so much hope when I see people
use really cool technology
to solve really big problems.
But they're still fine-tuning their system
before they massively scale up,
so they just aren't going
to be able to help us
plant the 20 million trees in time.
Which is why we've been talking
with all our YouTube creator friends
for the past five months, and we decided
if we were actually gonna
plant 20 million trees by 2020,
we would need to bring the entire
YouTube community together on this.
- I'm stoked, let's plant some trees.
- I'm so excited.
- It could be one of the craziest things
that YouTube has ever seen.
Just so many people, we could
end up with too many trees.
- We're calling it #TeamTrees
and we went through a
bunch of different options
on how to pull this off
and eventually settled
on working with the Arbor Day Foundation.
They're the longest running,
most well-respected
tree-planting non-profit
and we made a deal with them
that for every dollar we give them,
they would plant one tree.
It's basically magic
and I had to prove that
to my buddy Thomas.
Here's a dollar.
I'm gonna call my buddy Zach King here.
- [Thomas] Zach King, oo-la-la.
- Oh, hi, Mark.
- [Mark] Hey Zach, we've
got a dollar for you.
- Oh, okay.
So you're gonna take the dollar,
put it in some dirt, and then pull.
(leaves rustle)
- Ooh.
- And you get a tree.
- Oh wow.
- Pretty slick.
And so despite mine and
MrBeast's best effort,
we need your help, because
to plant 20 million trees,
we're really looking to raise $20 million.
That's just an insane goal,
especially when you only
have two short months to pull it off.
But starting today, you're
gonna see the entire
YouTube community come together on this
like you've never seen before.
- Okay, 20 million Trees, I am so in.
- Proud members of #TeamTrees.
We're filming a music video.
- We all way.
- No way.
- I will plant at least a couple of trees.
- The reason I'm most excited about this
is it feels like the
end of "Power Rangers"
when they would all
assemble into the big thing
and fight stuff together and do good.
- This will absolutely be historic
and we need you on #TeamTrees.
This is our chance to end this decade
on a super strong note.
It's a constructive way
to tell the policymakers
that this generation and our community
on YouTube truly cares
about the environment.
It's basically all of us joining together
to give a massive fist bump
to fricking Mother Earth.
I personally will be planting 50,000 trees
by donating $50,000, but that's still
way less than 20 million,
so join me and MrBeast
and all your favorite YouTube creators
by clicking that blue
button right over there
and planting as many trees
as you can afford right now.
We honestly need you.
If you're a working adult,
consider how many trees
you're willing to plant to send a message.
If you're a kid, talk to
your parents about this.
Get creative and do some
chores to earn some money.
Ask for some freaking trees for Christmas.
You can pick up 20 littered
soda cans and then recycle them,
and that's literally one
more tree that will exist
in the world than if you
wouldn't have done that.
This is all hands on deck, so
either click that blue button
or go to teamtrees.org and
turn your dollars into trees.
And then for like, the next two months,
make sure you like and
double tap and retweet
anything having to do with #TeamTrees
and harass your favorite creators to join
if they somehow haven't already.
And so now in exchange
for joining #TeamTrees,
if you've ever wondered how
we really know climate change
is occurring, stick
with me for two minutes,
'cause I'm gonna break it down real simple
using this column of ice.
A while back scientists
went down to Antarctica
and drilled out a bunch
of ice cores like this,
and what's cool is that because
ice layers up over time,
the really old ice is at the bottom
and the newer ice is on top.
Now, as you know, ice traps air bubbles.
So as you move your way down the column
you get these little pristine pockets
of air going back in time.
What they found was that
CO2 levels in the atmosphere
naturally fluctuate from about 200 to 300.
But then starting with
the Industrial Revolution,
we started burning way
more coal, which is made
from dead trees, and we
started burning down forests
for resources to keep pace
with the growing population.
The problem with both
of these is we're taking
all this carbon that was in the ground
in these massive carbon vacuum bags,
and we're putting it back into the air
at a super unnatural rate.
So much so that around 1950,
we busted into the 300s for the first time
in at least a million years.
And we weren't done yet
because just four years ago
in 2015 we broke into the 400s.
When I started writing
the script for this video,
we were at four 411.
Today we're at 412.
And this is the actual current data
from NASA's excellent website,
which does a great job
laying out all the data they've
gathered on climate change.
A lot of my old friends at NASA
played a role in collecting this data.
Now, here's the punchline
and why all of this matters.
If you independently look
at average temperature
over the past million
years and then overlay it
with average CO2 in the atmosphere,
they match up pretty much exactly.
So this relatively sudden
spike of all the CO2
in the air is not a good thing.
And sure enough, right
now we are consistently
breaking the hottest
month on Earth records,
which has a lot of knock-on effects,
which will start snowballing unless
we can band together
and reverse the trend.
And it's important to note with regards
to #TeamTrees that 20
million trees by 2020
isn't going to cure climate change,
but it's a step in the right direction
and a constructive, positive
way to send the message
that we see the science and we care.
So thanks for watching and thanks
for doing your part to make a difference.
I am so stoked.
We totally got this.
(water rushing)
(birds chirping)
(glass shatters)
(air whooshes)
(Mark screams)
(upbeat music)
(snow canon fires)
(deep reverb music)